# GSD_OptimInterim

While the group sequential design remains the most popular adaptive design in confirmatory trials, it still involves a range of unique theoretical and practical decisions that demand careful consideration in its planning and optimisation. For example, interim analyses are often equally spaced based on calendar time or available data in group sequential trials, but how to schedule interim analyses to optimise efficiency is rarely explored in existing studies. To address this issue, we develop _OptimInterim_, an _R_-based tool for optimising the timing for interim analyses in the group sequential trial with respect to particular objective criteria while controlling type I and type II errors. Our tool is applicable to the confirmatory trial with both continuous and binary endpoints, offering the flexibility of incorporating multiple interim analyses and modelling various enrolment processes. We illustrate its practical application with two landmark trials on steroids use in septic shock: the HYPRESS trial (ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT00670254) and the ADRENAL trial (ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT01448109). We assess its operating characteristics across different endpoint types, effect sizes, error rates, stopping criteria and objective criteria, with up to eight interim analyses. Importantly, with any predefined error rates, stopping criteria and objective criteria, the optimal timing for interim analyses remains constant across different endpoint types and effect sizes. We present a summary of the optimal interim analysis timing for group sequential trials with commonly used error rates, stopping criteria and objective criteria. This can serve as valuable practical guidance for scheduling interim analyses in group sequential trials.
